skill(apm-integrations): additional rules from recent HTTP-category PR reviews (#11927)
DataDog/dd-trace-java: .agents/skills/apm-integrations/references/instrumenter-module.md

# e.g. commons-httpclient-2.0/  (already exists)
```

If an existing module covers the same framework at a compatible version, **modify it in place** — do NOT create a parallel `$framework-2.0-generated/` or nested `$framework/$framework-2.0/` copy. Duplicate modules cause muzzle to match twice, double the CI cost, and create reviewer confusion (see PR #10941's "the more I read about it, the less I understand what was done" — a duplicate module that the reviewer could not disentangle from the original).

If the existing module targets a genuinely different version range (e.g. existing `foo-1.0/` and you're adding `foo-3.0/`), a version-sibling is correct — but confirm by reading the existing module's muzzle range first.

### Module constructor: choose names based on sibling structure

Each name passed to `super(...)` becomes a distinct `DD_TRACE_<NAME>_ENABLED` flag. Choose the number of names based on whether version-specific siblings exist (or are imminent):

**Single module, no version siblings, no imminent sibling planned** — pass ONE name:

```java
// CORRECT — single-module framework
public FeignInstrumentation() {
    super("feign");
}

> ```

Author: Addressed in 6616d81d35 — replaced the `super("feign")` example with `super("freemarker")` from `freemarker-2.3.24/DollarVariableInstrumentation.java:19`, which is verifiable in-repo and also demonstrates the "single-name across multiple version directories" case (freemarker-2.3.9/ + freemarker-2.3.24/ share the same name).

> Adding a version alias here mints a `DD_TRACE_<NAME>_<VER>_ENABLED` flag that has no counterpart to gate against; it doubles the config surface for no operator benefit. Empirically, most single-module frameworks in dd-trace-java (`feign`, `freemarker`, `liberty`, `sparkjava`) use one name — even when they live in a versioned directory.

Author: Addressed in 6616d81d35 — removed `feign` and `sparkjava` from the single-name list (list now: `freemarker`, `liberty`), and added a dedicated counter-example explaining sparkjava-2.3's `super("sparkjava", "sparkjava-2.4")` — the `-2.4` alias reflects the version the code EXERCISES (compile against 2.3, test against 2.4 for JettyHandler), not the directory name. Explicit "do NOT invent a `-2.3` alias just because the directory is named that way" callout added.

  ✅ `public String[] triggerClasses() { return new String[]{"com.example.Foo"}; }`

### Before writing a new module, scan for an existing one

Before creating `dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/$framework-$version/`, list the parent directory `dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/` to see what's already there:

```
ls dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/
# e.g. commons-httpclient-2.0/  (already exists)

> ```

Reviewer: not sure we need an explicit example of how to list a directory - this should be bread+butter to the AI

Author: Removed the shell example entirely in `3c2214d6f2` — reworded to "check whether `dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/` already exists and what's in it."

**Counter-example — `sparkjava`:** the `sparkjava-2.3/` module uses `super("sparkjava", "sparkjava-2.4")` (note the `-2.4`, not `-2.3`) because the module compiles against Spark 2.3 but tests against 2.4 (Spark's `JettyHandler` is available from 2.4). The versioned alias here reflects the version the code EXERCISES, not the compile-time minimum. This is intentional; do NOT invent a `-2.3` alias just because the directory is named `sparkjava-2.3/`. If in doubt, read the master `super(...)` and copy it verbatim.

**Multiple version siblings exist** (`okhttp-2.0/` AND `okhttp-3.0/`, `jedis-1.4/` AND `jedis-3.0/` AND `jedis-4.0/`) — pass a shared group name PLUS a version-qualified alias so each version has an independent toggle sharing one group flag:

```java
// CORRECT — okhttp has real siblings (okhttp-2.0 and okhttp-3.0)
public OkHttp3Instrumentation() {
    super("okhttp", "okhttp-3");
}
```

Users can then set `DD_TRACE_OKHTTP_ENABLED=false` (group off) OR `DD_TRACE_OKHTTP_3_ENABLED=false` (this version only).

> **New module you expect will imminently sibling** — add the alias upfront and document why in the commit message. If no sibling appears, drop the alias in a follow-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**New module you expect will soon have a sibling** — add the alias upfront and document why in the commit message. If no sibling appears, drop the alias in a follow-up.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion verbatim in `3c2214d6f2` — "soon have a sibling."

**Existing module** (modifying, refactoring, or splitting): read the existing module's `super(...)` and copy it verbatim. Integration names are public config API — renaming one silently breaks customer `DD_TRACE_*_ENABLED` settings.

> Before choosing, run `ls dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/` — the directory contents are the ground truth for whether siblings exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before choosing, list the `dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/` directory — the contents are the ground truth for whether siblings exist.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion verbatim in `3c2214d6f2` — "list the `dd-java-agent/instrumentation/$framework/` directory — the contents are the ground truth for whether siblings exist."

- Member instrumentations must **not** carry `@AutoService` and must **not** extend `TargetSystem` subclasses

See `docs/how_instrumentations_work.md` section "Grouping Instrumentations" for details.

## Enrichment helpers must be declared in `helperClassNames()`

> If your advice delegates to a helper class (e.g. `SparkJavaRouteEnricher.enrich(...)` from inside `RoutesAdvice`), the helper's fully-qualified class name MUST be listed in `helperClassNames()` on the `InstrumenterModule`:

Reviewer: caveat: unless the helper is supplied on the boot-class-path, such as by `agent-bootstrap`

Author: Added in `3c2214d6f2` — the requirement now reads "MUST be listed in `helperClassNames()` on the `InstrumenterModule` — unless the helper is supplied on the boot-class-path (e.g. from `agent-bootstrap`), in which case it is already available without injection."
